The British Business Bank (BBB), owned by the U.K. government, is creating a £500 million (around $674 million)economic package to helpsupport diverse and underrepresented fund managers and founders in the country.
Fifty million pounds will be set aside for female-led venture funds, which means the BBB has now committed at least £100 million (around $135 million) to supporting female-led ventures and the government’sInvest in Women Taskforce. Meanwhile, £400 million (around $539 million) will go to backing more diverse fund managers and supporting early-stage companies, as well as helping to boost the talent pipeline to provide those from disadvantaged backgrounds the opportunity to become investors. The package begins deployment in 2026.
“The initiative announced today aims to reduce the significant gap in venture capital investment for underrepresented founders and investors,” the BBB said in a press release announcing the investment last week. “It will target at least 50% of investment going to female fund managers.”
It comes as the U.K. continues its push to attract and sustain talent to its venture ecosystem. The press release states that “breaking down barriers to opportunity will help drive growth as part of the government’s Plan for Change,” which encompasses various strategies to help drive economic growth in the country.
For women and people of color, the U.K. venture landscape can often be as disheartening as it is in the U.S. Around 13% of venture teams in the U.K. have women at a senior level, while dismal amounts of venture funding goes to minorities —less than 2% for Black foundersas of a 2023 report, and 2 pence (around 3 cents) for every £1 ($1.35) invested goes to women.
Dominic-Madori Davis is a senior venture capital and startup reporter at TechCrunch. She is based in New York City.
You can contact or verify outreach from Dominic by emailingdominic.davis@techcrunch.comor via encrypted message at +1 646 831-7565 on Signal.
Plan ahead for the 2026 StrictlyVC events. Hear straight-from-the-source candid insights in on-stage fireside sessions and meet the builders and backers shaping the industry. Join the waitlist to get first access to the lowest-priced tickets and important updates.
NY Governor Hochul signs bill requiring warning labels on ‘addictive’ social media
How reality crushed Ÿnsect, the French startup that had raised over $600M for insect farming
Nvidia to license AI chip challenger Groq’s tech and hire its CEO
Waymo explains why its robotaxis got stuck during the SF blackout
Marissa Mayer’s new startup Dazzle raises $8M led by Forerunner’s Kirsten Green
Inside Uzbekistan’s nationwide license plate surveillance system
ChatGPT launches a year-end review like Spotify Wrapped source_url:https://techcrunch.com/2025/07/13/uk-launches-500-package-to-support-diverse-underrepresented-investors-and-founders/