Fizz, the college social app, is expanding into grocery delivery thanks to a new partnership withGopuff, the startup told TechCrunch exclusively. The partnership will allow students to order anything from late-night snacks to weekly groceries directly within the Fizz app in as fast as 15 minutes, Fizz says.
Founded in 2021, Fizz is available at more than 620 campuses across the United States, with over 27 million posts shared to date. The social platform allows students to connect anonymously with others at their university. Fizz also features a marketplace where users can buy and sell items locally.
Fizz co-founder and CEO Teddy Solomon told TechCrunch in an email that the startup’s expansion into grocery delivery was a long time coming, as users had been asking for the feature for some time.
He says that students are already using Fizz to buy and sell through the Fizz Marketplace and to coordinate group food and beverage delivery, so it made sense to make grocery delivery possible through the app.
Solomon also believes it was a natural fit for Fizz to partner with Gopuff, since it’s also a service that was founded by and for college students and is popular among a younger customer base.
“Gopuff was founded by college students and has long had a strong presence on campuses, so the synergy with Fizz was clear,” Solomon said. “We share the same Gen Z DNA, and once conversations began, it was obvious this partnership would be a great fit. By combining Fizz’s community and extreme distribution with Gopuff’s ability to deliver essentials instantly, we are making student life easier.”
While students could already order groceries through Gopuff directly, Fizz says the new integration allows for more convenience. Additionally, the Fizz Store features pre-selected collections of groceries to make it easier to shop for essentials. Examples of these include the Gym, Study Fuel, and Rush bags.
Despite adding a marketplace and grocery delivery, Fizz says it’s still a social app and will always be one.
“As platforms like Instagram and TikTok have gone all in on entertainment (only7% of contentconsumed on Instagram is from friends), Fizz has continued to be the most powerful community for shared experiences and identities,” Solomon said. “Features like the Fizz Store are a direct extension of the core experience, and help to fulfill Fizz’s mission of being the social app for the 99% of life that is not on Instagram and TikTok.”
In terms of the future, Solomon says Fizz will continue to expand to new campuses and markets. Fizz also plans to expand its social features while focusing on authenticity and community.
Fizz shared that in the past month, it has quadrupled its daily active users, launched on 250+ new campuses, and broken its one-day registration record 12 days in a row.
The startup has raised $41 million in funding to date.
Aisha is a consumer news reporter at TechCrunch. Prior to joining the publication in 2021, she was a telecom reporter at MobileSyrup. Aisha holds an honours bachelor’s degree from University of Toronto and a master’s degree in journalism from Western University.
You can contact or verify outreach from Aisha by emailingaisha@techcrunch.comor via encrypted message at aisha_malik.01 on Signal.
Plan ahead for the 2026 StrictlyVC events. Hear straight-from-the-source candid insights in on-stage fireside sessions and meet the builders and backers shaping the industry. Join the waitlist to get first access to the lowest-priced tickets and important updates.
NY Governor Hochul signs bill requiring warning labels on ‘addictive’ social media
How reality crushed Ÿnsect, the French startup that had raised over $600M for insect farming
Nvidia to license AI chip challenger Groq’s tech and hire its CEO
Waymo explains why its robotaxis got stuck during the SF blackout
Marissa Mayer’s new startup Dazzle raises $8M led by Forerunner’s Kirsten Green
Inside Uzbekistan’s nationwide license plate surveillance system
ChatGPT launches a year-end review like Spotify Wrapped source_url:https://techcrunch.com/2025/09/03/college-social-app-fizz-expands-into-grocery-delivery/